# zigbee gateway

in this project we are going to create a zigbee gateway. this gateway must initiate the zigbee network, communicate with the connected devices, and send their data to the server. In this project, we are going to use nRF 52840 dk, nRF 52840 dongle and orange pi zero plus
from the zigbee introduction, it is obvious that the gateway must work as a zigbee coordinator. Due to the fact that nRF52840 doesn't support wifi connection, orange pi zero plus does handle the connection to the server.
this project can be divided into several parts: zigbee network configuration, zigbee network co processor app development, connection to the server from clients, and server side task handling.

## zigbee network configuration

first thing first it is needed to find a way to implement the network coordinator. zigbee network co-processor (zigbee NCP) does handle the whole network processors as well as drive RF transceivers. in order to implement a zigbee NCP there must be a zigbee supporting device available. Nordic Semiconductor developed some good boards for this goal. nRF52840 module (dk and dongle) can support different protocol stacks like Thread, Zigbee, ANT, etc. in addition, Nordic offers these modules with fairly affordable price. ( you can buy a nRF52840 dongle for only 10$. come on it only cost you two meals ordering a big mac from your neighborhood MacDonald's :joy::rofl:)
nRf52840 provides a powerful tool to implement a zigbee network. there are plenty of useful examples. For getting to know the module it is recommended that the basic examples like "hello_world", "Blinky", or "Threads" be demonstrated. Nordeic provides 3 zigbee examples: network_coordinator, light_bulb, light_switch; which are really useful. the thing is these zigbee examples are totally standalone and they are only running on the nRF chip. Therefor, there is no user specified functionality after the built file gets flashed on the module. This characteristic isn't the ideal for this project, because the desired functionalites mostly come from the server in a real time manner. Fortunately, Nordic provides a solution for this usage. NCP (Network Co-Processor) is the solution. The idea comes from the fact that a processor is needed to handle the whole zigbee protocol stack right till the Application layer, and let you program the application layer so you can control the zigbee network real time. this acan be done by having a processor handling the zigbee protocol stack and ;et you connect to the processor to send commands on the desired functionalities by the use of other communication protocols like UART, USB, etc. NCP provides such a thing. in this example, the whole protocol stack breaks into two parts. the zigbee stack can be built like a hex file etc. that can be flashed to the nRF52840 and the desired functionalities can be implemented by a C programming communicating with the processor through UART or USB.[Here](https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/samples/zigbee/ncp/README.html) you can find the step by step process of running a demo.  
